[MUSIC].
As you can see here, I've just got a
simple page set up.
Which is a list from one to nine.
And then we have simple value which will
list, which will increment through.
Each of these list items until we get to
the end.
So this is just going to go from one to
nine, as
you can see I've already run this and that
is what you get.
Now there are a couple of things which you
can
do within Python to control how how an
iterating loop will.
Run.
And the first thing that we can do is
something called a break.
So what I'm going to do is if int is equal
to 7, then I'm going to do break.
Now what we can do is, when we run this.
And [INAUDIBLE] gonna do, else, and print.
And this will run, as so.
We get to six, and then it stops the loop.
So break is a keyword which completely
cuts off the loop, and quits it.
Now, what we can also do is, we also have
one which continue.
[SOUND] So, if we get to.
Number seven, it will skip it.
So you could see we get one, two, three
four, five, six, eight, nine.
So continue is a way of starting the loop
again.
So it goes from the beginning and then
skips the rest
of it and goes to the end of the loop,
loop.
Now there is also, we can also use the
else within a loop as well as we've seen
here.
But there's another way in which we can
use it, and that is as a default value.
And so we're going to print,
print as default.
And as you can see that, once we get to
the end we get the print of default as
well.
So a for loop and a while loop, all these
break
continue and else work for for loop and a
while loop.
Can print out what happens if, as soon as
it becomes false, so as soon as this is
no longer true, this is the output which
you
will receive, or the code that will end up
running.
Now this is identical to if we didn't have
the actual else statement there, it would
continue running
as well, however it sort of makes it
easier
to read if you have the else statement
there because.
Cuz then you understand that once this has
stopped running, that is what's going to
happen next.
So that is all of the flow controls for
iterating loops within python.
Thank you for watching this video and that
is the end of the loops chapter on.
python.
[MUSIC].